---
title: 02466 Project work - Bachelor of Artificial Intelligence and Data
description: Use of AI in 02466 Project work - Bachelor of Artificial Intelligence and Data
---


Type of assessment: Oral examination and reports

**Evaluation:** 7 step scale

**General course objectives**

To qualify and train students in project work and provide a deeper
understanding of one or more subjects within modelling, design and
evaluation of intelligent systems.

**Learning objectives**

A student who has met the objectives of the course will be able to:

-   Set up own learning objectives for the project work.

-   Limit a subject area, suitable for a project of 10 ECTS, within
    modelling, design and evaluation of intelligent systems.

-   Formulate relevant professional problems and hypotheses, which can
    limit and guide the project.

-   Plan and conduct a realistic project, make work plans and time
    schedules, and adjust the plan according to new conditions and
    acquired knowledge.

-   Choose and apply reasonable methods for modelling and design of
    intelligent systems, including ethical dimensions and societal
    impact.

-   Design and carry out experiments to evaluate and improve intelligent
    systems.

-   Evaluate and summarize results.

-   Write a structured technical report, including references and
    citations.

-   Provide constructive criticism of own and other’s work.

-   Present methods and results concisely both orally and in written
    form.

-   Use AI tools to optimally enhance all parts of the project work from
    searching literature, to brainstorming project scope and design and
    assisting in writing processes including report and code.

-   Document the use of the AI tools and reflect upon how you have
    critically evaluated the tools when assisted in the project work.

**Content**

The project content is chosen by the students and the teacher in common.
Project subjects are published in previous semesters. The students may
suggest projects themselves and find supervisors at the DTU departments
for Applied Mathematics and Computer Science. The projects will
typically include one or more of the disciplines machine learning,
statistics, cognitive systems, signal processing, image analysis,
computational social science, logic and algorithms, with applications in
a wide range of societal domains. Besides the actual project work, there
will be given instructions in report writing, group work, short
intensive teaching in specific topics including the use of AI tools in
research and project work and more. The course is finished by oral
presentations for all participants and an oral examination. The
presentations will take place at the end of the 13-week period and at
the end of the 3-week period.

[1] https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/why-generative-ai-considered-disruptive-technology-education

[2] See e.g.
https://teaching.cornell.edu/generative-artificial-intelligence

[3] https://uwaterloo.ca/centre-for-teaching-excellence/catalogs/tip-sheets/preparing-tests-and-exams

[4] See also Elsevier’s policy
https://www.elsevier.com/about/policies-and-standards/the-use-of-generative-ai-and-ai-assisted-technologies-in-writing-for-elsevier

[5] https://callingbullshit.org/
