---
title: 02461 Introduction to intelligent systems
description: Use of AI in 02461 Introduction to intelligent systems
hiddenInHomeList: true
tags: [ "course", "DTU Compute", "BSc"  ]
author: Mikkel Schmidt
---

**Exam:** Written examination and reports  
Written exam (weight 40%) and individualized group report (weight 60%)  
Participation in project work activities are mandatory.

**Exam duration**: Written exam: 2 hours

**Aid**: One handwritten page (provided or own notes?)

**Evaluation:** 7 step scale , external examiner

**General course objectives**

To give the participants a basic knowledge of

· defining aspects of intelligent systems,

· applications of intelligent systems in image, audio, text and game
data,

· computational tools for artificial intelligence, and

· engineering applications of intelligent systems.

**Learning objectives**

A student who has met the objectives of the course will be able to:

-   Describe key components of intelligent systems: Sensing and active
    data collection, machine learning, statistical evaluation and
    communication

-   Discuss the role of AI tools in application domains such as
    bio-medicine, business and commerce, information retrieval and
    social media

-   Discuss safety and ethical challenges in AI. Biases and stereotypes,
    privacy and societal impact.

-   Apply real-time AI tools to data such as image, audio, text and
    games. Discuss performance obtained in individual and classroom
    experiments

-   Use techniques for evaluation of performance and basic debugging of
    AI.

-   Apply scientific Python programming tools including Jupyter
    notebooks, Numpy, and Pytorch

-   Apply tools for managing of files and programs in the terminal

-   Apply tools for managing programming projects including version
    control

-   Evaluate and provide feedback for the work of other students

**Content**

The course provides a general introduction to AI and its tools. The
course is based on a set of AI tools with applications in image, audio,
text and games. A first motivating introduction to signals, machine
learning, visualization and computational tools necessary for
engineering AI systems. Discussion of ethics, privacy and societal
impact.

**Course literature**

Course notes

**Remarks**

\*\*\*\* workshop NOTES \*\*\*\*

**Written exam part**

Change written exam to written aids.

Aids allowed: One hand written page (not currently an option at DTU)

Make it a course activity to make the notes and do mock exams

**Project work**

All AI aids are allowed, and it works okay.

Checkpoints during the period – mandatory to show up x number of times
for feedback.

Require hand in code also – as part of the assignment/report.

More strict report format? Word counts for each section + number of
figures/tables?

Texcount on Overleaf?

**Exam platform**

DTU must provide some service

\- Controlled digital platform

\- Scanning service

**Other ideas**

Can we change the course to not be graded.

Make a report where each section is just the prompt

Make a written exam (no aids) after handing in a report, asking to
summarize.

Integrate prompting into teaching?

Could they compare own solution with AI solutions?

