---
title: 02806 Social data analysis and visualization
description: Use of AI in 02806 Social data analysis and visualization
---


**Rapporteur: Sune Lehmann**

Evaluation of exercises/reports. The grading is based on an overall
evaluation of exercises (50%) and final project report (50%).
Specifically, the grade is based on individualized group reports.

**Exam duration**: Written exam: 4 hours

**Evaluation:** 7 step scale, internal examiner

**General course objectives**

The course objective is to enable students to create visualizations of
complex data sets and to apply common strategies for understanding the
content of data sets (e.g. text, music, images, etc).

**Learning objectives**

A student who has met the objectives of the course will be able to:

-   Access and assess types of available on-line data for data
    visualization. **AI Concern**: No big concerns.

-   Identify and use state-of-the-art tools to filter, clean, and
    organize large, complex datasets and argue why data integrity has
    not been violated. **AI Concern**: Mindlessly applying AI to solve
    the problem and not getting a sense of the underlying data.

-   Apply statistical tools to evaluate data visualization methods for
    exploration of single variable data, including dot and jitter plots,
    histograms, kernel density estimates, distribution functions, and
    more. **AI Concern**: One concern is that the students don’t learn
    to properly apply the statistical tools (that they don’t understand
    them) because the AI can solve the problems for them. The second one
    is that the AI can interpret the outputs for th e students.

-   Assess and apply data visualization methods for data exploration of
    multiple variable data, including estimating functional
    relationships (e.g. by smoothing noise, visualizing residuals, using
    log, semilog-plots, and simple regressions). **AI Concern**: That
    the AI could solve the “apply” part of the learning objective, thus
    causing the students to not learn the fundamental concepts.

-   Use visualization techniques to evaluate and identify limitations of
    summary statistics, based e.g. on Simpson’s paradox, and Anscombe’s
    quartet. **AI Concern**: Not a big concern. Although the worst
    students could still use AI to solve the issues.

-   Use basic principles of displaying visual information (e.g. Tufte’s
    six principles of graphical integrity) to create explanatory
    visualizations. **AI Concern**: No big concern. Although the worst
    students could still use AI to create Tufte graphics.

-   Apply specialized visualization software (e.g. JavaScript’s D3
    library or Python libraries) in order to build custom visualizations
    designed to explain insights from a dataset to an audience. **AI
    Concern**: Here AI could be used directly. But maybe it’s OK.
    *Explain insights* is the important part here.

-   Analyze cases of narrative data visualization to extract the
    underlying principles used to construct this type of visualization.
    **AI Concern**: No big concerns.

-   Build a narrative data-visualization. **AI Concern**: No big
    concerns.

**Content** The course is based on mastering tools for analyzing data
sets generated from online behavior. The course is structured around
short lectures combined with exercises, as well as a high degree of
independent project work.

