---
title: 02809 UX Design Prototyping 
description: Use of AI in 02809 UX Design Prototyping 
---


**Rapporteur: Per Bækgaard**

**Background**

The UX Design Prototyping course enables students to develop functional
User Experience design prototypes on a variety of mobile devices using
lean prototyping methods.

Course evaluation is based on reports, with an emphasis on documenting
process steps that include qualitative and quantitative testing with
users.

**Use of AI in the course**

Use of Generative AI will be allowed in the course and can be useful for
e.g. idea generation, image generation, elements of prototyping,
information search etc.

**Impact on Learning Objectives**

The learning objectives do not mention any specific tools and are not
planned to be updated based on the decision to allow use of Generative
AI tools.

**Impact on the course Materials and Methods**

The students will be introduced to examples of using Generative AI tools
in the form of e.g. small instructional videos and examples. The quality
of the prototypes is expected to improve somewhat with the use of such
tools.

**Impact on the Evaluation Form**

Evaluation is primarily based on how well the student can select and
apply relevant process methods and document the results based on
first-hand recorded and collected data. The students also need to
document the prototype on multiple levels, and how it was derived.

Reports are very short and must be “to the point” focused on concrete
findings. Tools based on Large Language Models could potentially help to
write better texts, but the evaluation is based on the actual process
followed, the documented findings and the cohesion of the concrete
prototype across multiple levels.

At present, the evaluation form is considered resilient to Generative AI
and will not change.

