---
title: 41031 Industrial design 1
description: AI in 41031 Industrial design 1
hiddenInHomeList: true
tags: [ "course", "DTU Construct", "BSc" ]
author: Michael Deininger
---

**Course description**

In this three-week course students develop basic knowledge and skills of
the industrial design process. Students are tasked with developing a
consumer product that addresses problems and needs of an identified
target group. The students develop skills in concept generation, visual
communication, 3-D plastic modelling, and the synthesis of form, colour,
materials, and functionality.

**Learning goals**

-   Describe and apply basic industrial design methodology

-   Identify design related problems and needs in target groups

-   Formulate design specifications accompanied by mood boards

-   Select and apply relevant visual communication tools in the
    different phases of the industrial design process

-   Design a consumer product

-   Build a full scale plastic 3D model of a selected concept

-   Work independently on an individual design assignment

-   Argue for a selected design solution through text and illustrations

**Teaching**

As part of this course, students are asked to develop different concepts
for their identified challenge, including concepts for details of the
proposed solution. A full day is set aside for guided exercises, where
students are introduced to iterative concept development. Here students
follow a progression framework that supports structuring their work,
making decisions, and iterating on their general concepts as well as
features and details. For this, students use both manual and AI assisted
tools. The students are divided into groups and use manual tools
(drawing with pen and paper, or on a tablet) for half a day, and AI
tools during the other half of the day. After the guided exercises, the
students are free to select the tools they consdier best suited for the
task they are working on.

**Exam form**

Type of assessment: The students work on an individual design project.
They hand in a portfolio at the end of the three-week course that
documents all their activities. The portfolio is the basis for assessing
the students’ performance and is evaluated by an external examiner using
the 7 step scale.

**Summary and impact of using AI in this 41031 Industrial Design**

Starting in January 2023, students were prompted to use AI tools in
parallel with manual sketching techniques to create concepts. Even in
January 2023 the AI generated concepts were stunning and of much higher
visually quality than most of the ones drawn by hand. The AI generated
concepts were also often more diverse and appeared more creative.
However, the AI generated concepts were often unrealistic, incomplete,
and at least in part, made no sense since they did not support detailed
iteration of an idea or concept. While students in January 2023 used AI
tools primarily to generate concepts, they recently used AI tools to
help with the creation of moodboards, background settings, more trageted
iteration, and enhancing the visual quality of their maunually created
sketches.
