---
title: Generative AI (ChatGPT) in 62142 Digitalization and Industry 4.0
description: Generative AI (ChatGPT) in the B.Eng. course 62142 Digitalization and Industry 4.0
author: Samuel Brüning Larsen
hiddenInHomeList: true
tags: [ "course", "DTU EngTech", "BEng" ]
---

**Course objective:** To provide students with the skills to use GhatGPT
in their assignments. The course is a non-programming course, which
focuses on digital technology understanding, implementation and
operation.

**Target audience:** B. Eng. students specializing in the implementation
and use of digitalization and Industry 4.0 technologies.

**Use of generative AI:** in Assignments (which are part of the exam)

**Course content from course database:**

Digitalization and Industry 4.0 have have a significant impact on the
value chains, production systems, and processes. Digitalization and
Industry 4.0 have affected the production of products as well as the
production of services (for example in the financial sector, health care
and in the transport sector). Digitalization and the application of data
provide new opportunities to develop and optimize the company’s value
chains, production systems, and processes. However, there is a challenge
for many companies about creating real value from digitalization. This
course will, based on the ongoing movement towards Industry 4.0, will
provide students with an overview of the opportunities that digitization
provides to develop and optimize value chains, production systems and
processes

Examples of assignments is provided below:

-   Choose a technology and first explain how it can be applied
    generally, and then in your specific company

-   Select a process or function in the company, and then explain how a
    range of technologies or a combination of technologies can improve
    this process

-   Choose a company that is 'ahead of the curve' with Industry 4.0.
    Describe their current processes and how they use the technologies.
    Conclude by considering the natural next steps on the company's
    technology implementation journey

**Implementation Steps / Practicalities:**

To motivate the students to use ChatGPT in these assignments, the course
includes two full four-blocks where students train their skills in
ChatGPT. The students work with the following assignments in the two-day
integrated mini-course in ChatGTP:

Tasks:

\(1\) Creativity

Write a Danish essay of 400 words. It should be a comedy, containing
jokes that you find funny. It should be suitable for an 8-year-old to
read.

\(2\) Creativity

Ask DALL-E to generate a series of images that could fit as the
background for your LinkedIn profile. Optionally choose one of the
images and upload it (your choice 🙂).

\(3\) Quantitative Analysis

Generate a table with order lines. The table's column headings are:
date, customer number, item number, item name, price per unit, units in
order, customer's annual income, customer's municipality, day of the
week for purchase, and whether the order was bought online or in store
(ensure there are at least 100 rows). Ask ChatGPT to:

a\. Visualize the data in a series of graphs and identify relationships
between variables

b\. Generate graphs over the most interesting relationships between
variables

c\. Deduce a series of possible reasons for customers' purchasing
behavior and suggest measures to sell more

\(4\) Text Analysis

Upload a long text (e.g., an interview from a newspaper article) and
perform a coding of the interview (which words are new, which are used a
lot, how are they used, etc.) - Try Googling "discourse analysis of
interview" just for fun.

\(5\) Investigation

Investigation of biodiversity - Assume your manufacturing company will
establish a new factory in the Region Zealand on an approx. 10,000 m2
site. You need to investigate how the establishment of this factory will
affect biodiversity in the area itself and the surrounding area. First
assume that the company buys agricultural land. Then assume that the
company buys a piece of forest. See if there is a difference in the
impact on biodiversity.

\(6\) Explanations

Ask ChatGPT to explain quantum physics to you. Ask for an explanation
suitable for a 10-year-old and then for a 15-year-old. Ask ChatGPT to
illustrate quantum physics with an image in Dall-E and ask to have the
image explained.

\(7\) Technical Tip

Update your own profile description under settings and investigate if it
gives you different answers. Write, for example, that you are the new
chief of technology implementation at a manufacturing company. You could
also write that you are an experienced supply chain manager for a
pharmaceutical manufacturer, or an experienced sales manager for a
company that sells Industry 4.0 technologies.

\(8\) Analysis of Legal Basis

You disagree with a supplier of an automated process about the delivery
time, which has been greatly exceeded. Ask ChatGPT for two things:

a\. Good advice prior to negotiation with the supplier

b\. The legal basis for a possible dispute

\(9\) Planning a Workshop

Plan a Kaizen workshop to improve the company's far too low adherence to
delivery times for finished orders.

Ask ChatGPT to ask you what information is needed to make a good plan.

\(9\) Inspiration for Workshop

For the preparation of the Kaizen workshop, ask ChatGPT for inspiration
on how the company's far too low delivery compliance can be improved.

A. What does academic logistics literature say about delivery
compliance?

B. What experiences do other companies have? Are there cases that can
inspire?

C. What are the typical reasons for low delivery compliance, and what
can be done to improve it?

\(10\) Secretary Function

Ask ChatGPT to act as a note-taker for your own brainstorm. Tell ChatGPT
to just respond with OK unless you ask it something specific. Ask it to
just listen without interrupting you. Then record your brainstorm (on
the mobile version of ChatGPT).

\(11\) Ask for Advice

You are a newly hired manager for technology implementation at a
producer of high-end furniture. You would first like answers to two
questions:

a\. What are the typical operational competitive parameters for the
high-end furniture industry?

b\. What are the obvious opportunities for how technology can improve
operations?

Choose now three technologies that ChatGPT has suggested, or that you
think would be appropriate, and then ask ChatGPT for the following three
things:

a\. Propose an implementation plan with activities

b\. List the plan's action items or activities in a table with the
following columns: Activity, Duration, Responsible, and Start Date.

c\. Finally, ask ChatGPT to create a CSV file of this table for copying
directly to Excel.

\(12\) Analysis

Conduct a SWOT analysis for the decision on where to locate a factory.
You would like to choose between either Værløse Municipality or
Ringkøbing Municipality. Ask ChatGPT for a SWOT analysis on where it
would be smartest to place your factory.

Now give some more details. Tell ChatGPT that you are the boss of a
coffee roastery, which would like to be near its customers in the
Copenhagen area, but that you also want to be close to machine
suppliers, many of whom are in Jutland. See if the SWOT analysis
changes.

\(13\) Creativity

Write a Tintin adventure about Tintin's possible role in your favorite
crime novel. If you're not familiar with any crime novels, then ask
ChatGPT to compose an adventure on how Tintin participates in the plot
in Agatha Christie's "Murder on the Orient Express". If crime novels
aren't your thing, choose another story, e.g., an Avengers, Snow White,
or Barbie movie.

\(14\) Understanding of Concepts

The list below constitutes DTU's nine digital themes. These are elements
from DTU's strategy that, over the next few years, will be integrated
into DTU's education programs to a degree suitable for each specific
program.

1\. Concepts of digital literacy and computational thinking

2\. Data, data sharing and its security, and its ethical basis

3\. Computational thinking and algorithmic perspectives on creative
problem solving

4\. FAIR data and data analytics (visualization, data mining,
statistical methods, uncertainty quantification, etc.)

5\. Construction of mathematical models of engineering problems

6\. Development of computer programs to solve engineering problems using
version control and repositories

7\. Artificial intelligence, and its relation to human intelligence

8\. The uses and limitations of digital hardware and infrastructure

9\. Evaluation of digital outputs and what they mean in a social and
physical context

Tell ChatGPT that you are an engineering student and what direction you
are studying. Copy the description that is on DTU's website about your
education into ChatGPT, so ChatGPT has a concrete understanding of what
you are studying.

Then ask ChatGPT to explain to you:

A. What these nine digital themes mean in general (e.g., what is
computational thinking)

B. What these nine digital themes mean for a future engineer like you

C. Ask to prioritize the themes according to importance for your
engineering profile

D. Ask for an explanation of the prioritization. Why is something more
important than something else?

**Evaluation and Assessment:**

Students are formally evaluated on their general assignments and not
their explicit use of ChatGPT. However, the course does include a
voluntary student presentation of their individual ChatGTP skills.
