---
title: Brug af AI i Kemisk Fagprojekt
description: Brug af AI i Kemisk Fagprojekt
author: Esben Thormann
hiddenInHomeList: true
tags: [ "lessons", "feedback" ]
---

## Brug af AI i Kemisk fagprojekt

De studerende blev bedt om at skrive en paragraf om hvilken rolle AI har
haft i deres projektarbejde. Nedenfor er et udsnit af deres svar.

”Denne rapport har gjort brug af chatbotten ChatGPT 3.5 i starten af
processen til inspiration af valg af underemner. Derudover er chatbotten
benyttet til at få en hurtig og nem forklaring til et emne der ikke var
hel forståelse for eller til omformulering af ord og sætninger.”

”As a new requirement by DTU, we have to talk about our position in
regards to using AItechnology such as ChatGPT and if we used it, how we
used it. It would seem to be counter-productive to be against ChatGPT
and AI as a whole when writing about the following subject - in large
parts because AI and machine learning is accelerating the field at a
pace previously unheard of, a quick Google Scholar search will yield
27.100 results\[52\], with 5.570 results since 2023, while all of it may
not be top-quality research, it’s a testament to the rate at which the
field is growing and is using the technologies available for creating a
better and more sustainable future in terms of energy storage. In
regards to our own use of AI in the following report, it made sense to
utilise the technologies available to us, especially concerning the
research we were looking at was, at times, a higher educational level
than what we are currently at, thus we have used technology such as
ChatGPT to explain concepts for us, which we ourselves couldn’t figure
out. Moreover the newest ”GPT” features has been used to utilise the
”Consensus” and ”ScholarAI” GPT’s, which both have access to a lot of
research articles, meaning you could utilise these plugins in
co-operation with google scholar and DTU’s own FindIt for finding
relevant articles. In some sections we have also used Grammarly, to try
and fix our grammatical errors as English is not any of the writer’s
first language, however, Grammarly has started to use generative
AI\[53\], and thus we may have missed certain places in the text, where
it has edited the text while fixing language.”

”In this project, the AI-technology, ChatGPT, has been used to
investigate the area of intumescent coatings by using the chatbot to
explore and discover different subtopics within intumescent coatings.

It has also been used to explore alternatives to the blowing agent
melamine, as the substance is regarded as a very high concern and health
hazard \[3\]. By looking into the physical chemical properties and other
qualities that makes melamine an ideal blowing agent, ChatGPT was asked
to propose different substances with similar traits. The main focus on
these questions were the type of gasses released during thermal
decomposition and can be seen in appendix A. The proposals were then
listed and examined to determine if they were able to replace melamine.”

“Chat-GPT is in this project used as a tool for exploring and creating a
foundation for further knowledge. By using Chat-GPT to gain a quick
overview before reading an article, the article is made easier to
understand. Additionally, we used CHAT-GPT to swiftly locate LaTeX
commands, discover synonyms, and refine formulations to enhance the
overall reading experience. When using Chat-GPT it is important to keep
in mind that it is not known where the information comes from, and makes
decisions according to the data it is being fed. Because of this
Chat-GPT cannot be used as a source for knowledge, but rather as a tool
to gain a foundation for quicker understanding of actual scientific
articles.”

“Even though AI has spread over the last few years, we have chosen not
to use it. There is a free version (ChatGPT-3.5) and a paid version
(ChatGPT-4).1 None of us wanted to pay for the service so the free
version was the only one available. In the free version the newest data
you can get is from 20211 and we think that it is too old when we can
find much newer articles by just searching ourselves. We also have some
skepticism about where it gets its information from and how we should
cite it.”

“Artificial Intelligence (AI) has been used in this report to seek
inspiration and to get a very general overview of which subjects might
be of interest for further study within the overall topic of protein
kinetic stability. Using AI, mainly ChatGPT, presented a range of issues
of different severity. The biggest problem was that the AI presented
knowledge that’s only applicable to specific protein families as
generally applicable. This is problematic in general but severe in our
case since very little is general for all proteins in our given subject.
Furthermore the used AI did not present any data with a margin of error,
which is not preferable and cited no sources. Therefore AI has not been
used neither as a source nor to write any of this report.”

“During the project we felt it necessary to discuss the use of AI
(specifically ChatGPT) to perhaps enhance our knowledge and therefore
our project. It has become such an integral part of our society and also
the educational system, hence we thought it to be an inevitable part of
our project. Not necessarily in terms of using the AI, but rather our
thinking behind its utilization. How big of a part should it play or
should it even play a part? We must first understand what ChatGPT is and
it’s purpose. ChatGPT is a tool that utilizes AI to understand an input
(often a question) and generate dynamic text to respond. It’s also
important to understand that the knowledge that the AI possesses isn’t
new thinking. It’s knowledge already known to man. It’s constantly
adapting and learning. If you were to ask the same question twice, you
would most likely get two different answers to the same question.
Furthermore, the information that it gathers come from an array of
different sources, which leads to the next point. We don’t know the
sources that ChatGPT utilizes, which is problematic if you plan on the
tool being a big part of your project, since you won’t be able to
reference your sources. It’s never a good idea not being able to source
large parts of your project and plagiarism might become a problem, even
if unintentional. It is therefore our believe that AI and ChatGPT is
best utilized as a sort of "sparring partner" to perhaps help get you
started and thinking, instead of just inserting long passages of text of
which you don’t know the sources and therefore can’t vouch for the
content.”
